---
layout: post
author: tyson
title: "Exercise 1.9.2"
is_exercise: true
chapter: 1

usemathjax: true
hide_tags: true
---

**Exercise 1.3.2** A fair coin is tossed repeatedly. (a) Show that, with
probability one, a head turns up sooner or later. (b) Show similarly that any
given finite sequence of heads and tails occurs eventually with probability one.
(c) Explain the connection with Murphy’s Law.

*Solution*:

(a) In this experiment the coin is tossed forever, no matter what it lands on.
Let $$A_n$$ be the event that no head occurs in the first $$n$$ tosses, and
$$A$$ the event that no head occurs ever. Since $$\prob(A_n) = (1/2)^n$$ and
$$A_1 \supset A_2 \supset \ldots$$, the continuity property of $$\prob$$ implies
that

$$
\begin{align*}
\prob(A)
&= \prob\left(\bigcap_{n=1}^\infty A_n\right) \\
&= \lim_{n\to\infty} \prob(A_n) &&\text{by the continuity property of $\prob$}\\
&= \lim_{n\to\infty} \left(\frac{1}{2}\right)^n \\
&= 0.
\end{align*}
$$

Therefore, the probability that a heads will turn up, sooner or later, is
$$\prob(A^c) = 1 - \prob(A) = 1$$.

(b) Let $$s$$ be a finite sequence of heads and tails of length $$n$$, and 
$$A_i$$ denote the event that $$i$$th batch of $$n$$ coin flips does not match
$$s$$. That is, $$A_1$$ means that flips $$1,2,\ldots n$$ do not match $$s$$,
$$A_2$$ means that flips $$n+1, n+2, \ldots, 2n$$ do not match $$s$$, etc. Let
$$E_i = \cap_{j=1}^i A_j$$ and $$E = \cap_{i=1}^\infty E_i$$ denote the event
that no batch-aligned sequence of $$n$$ tosses matches $$s$$. Since $$E_1
\supset E_2 \supset \ldots$$ and $$p:= \prob(A_i) = (1-(1/2)^n) < 1$$, it
follows that

$$
\begin{align*}
\prob\left(E\right)
&= \prob\left(\bigcap_{i=1}^\infty E_i\right) \\
&= \lim_{i\to\infty} \prob(E_i) \\
&= \lim_{i\to\infty} \left(\prod_{j=1}^i\prob(A_j)\right) \\
&= \lim_{i\to\infty} p^i \\
&= 0.
\end{align*}
$$

Therefore, the probability that $$s$$ occurs eventually (aligned to one of the
batches above) is $$\prob(E^c) = 1 - \prob(E) = 1$$.

This result can also be arrived at by treating each batch of $$n$$ tosses as a
single step, with a probability of $$p < 1$$ of not matching the sequence and a
probability of $$q = 1-p$$ of matching, and applying similar logic to (a).

(c) Given enough trials, all events with non-zero probability will occur
eventually with probability $$1$$. That is, if something can go wrong (with
probability &gt; 0), then it will go wrong (eventually).
