```text
author: Tyson Liddell
tags: 8088 IBM-PC
```
# Fun with the x86 - Programming the original IBM PC

## Rough plan (subject to change):
1. Start with the original IBM PC (5150) running with MDA display (no pixels,
   no colour, just characters).

2. Switch from MDA to CGA graphics when the I need to start addressing
   individual pixels. I might also play around with the Hercules video card to
   get pixels on a monochrome monitor too.

3. Move to the IBM XT when I need more processing power.

4. Move to the IBM AT when I need more processing power.

5. Go through the 268,386,486 when I need more processing power.

## Current Status
I've run into a small issue when trying to use a 160K disk image with the
original IBM PC (5150) running PC DOS 1.0, which did not occur when running
FreeDOS on an IBM XT (5160). I create a raw 160K floppy disk image using
`mtools` in Linux and put my binaries on it. When I load this disk into the
5150 and run `DIR` I get a bunch of trailing zeroes in the output like this:

TODO: ADD GIF

If I then format the disk from within the 5150 I lose the ability to mount it
in Linux, but the trailing zeroes go away and the disk functions as normal. I
have this same issue with the image file for the 160K disk containing PC DOS
1.0. It runs fine on the 5150, but I can't mount it in Linux.

## Next Task
My first task is to build a tool that can manage the FAT 12 filesystem in the
same way that PC DOS 1.0 does, as it seems to be slightly different from later
versions of DOS like FreeDOS. It should allow me to create a new 160K raw disk
image and read/add/delete files to/from it from my Linux environment.

## Useful links
- WinWorld
  https://winworldpc.com/library/operating-systems#
- Bit savers
  bitsavers.org
- PCjs: The undocumented PC
  https://www.pcjs.org/software/pcx86/sw/books/undocumented_pc/
- DOS Days
  https://dosdays.co.uk/

## Useful books
- Programming Boot Sector Games: Toledo
- Programming the 8086/8088: Coffron
